- A couple of weeks ago, I finished reading [[The Sovereign Individual]], a truly magnificent book written in the late 90s about the future of our world and how technology will radically change how societies choose to organize themselves and function.
- In various parts of the book, the authors described the principles and attributes of the [[Blockchain]] technology, without articulating it as Blockchain. The notion of digital-native currency to exchange and store value in a permissionless manner, was highly controversial at the time of writing, only to be implemented with the birth of [[Bitcoin]].
- Well, I thought to myself, that I ought to give the whole blockchain domain a second chance, after wasting a whole year back in 2018 in not-so-legit[ blockchain projects](https://scholar.google.gr/citations?user=LFNHtTgAAAAJ&hl=en).
- Being familiar with the basic principles of blockchain, I opted to start with a practical aspect of the space, with **Solidity** being the **obvious** **choice**. That is because it is the first and most widely used language for programming applications that run on top of a blockchain. [[Solidity]] runs on [[Ethereum]], which is the most widely used __general application__ blockchain. With Solidity, you create programs named __smart contracts__ which run on the Ethereum blockchain itself, or rather on the [[ethereum full node]].
- With the language being [turing-complete](https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turing_complete#:~:text=Turing%20complete%20is%20a%20term,programming%20languages%20are%20Turing%2Dcomplete.), we can write programs about a great number of use-cases. From running decentralized exchanges ([[dex]]), to defining the rules of an organization ([[DAO]]). Once we launch these programs on the blockchain, it is impossible for others to censor or stop them from running. These applications, like the widely known cryptocurrencies, are decentralized, meaning that they run on **every** miner node, without a central point of control* or failure.
- *It is actually possible to have a central point of control, but it's visible to everyone, so there is transparency.
- Let's take a moment to reflect on this unique characteristic. **We can define a system, that is completely transparent and where everyone participates according to a pre-defined set of rules, known from the start.** Couple that with the fact that the smart-contract code that runs is open-source by default, meaning that anyone can view the source code of any* smart contract, and you get a truly groundbreaking way to create software and design systems.
- [[Naval Ravikant]], also known as the philosopher investor, has said about Ethereum:
    - > So if Bitcoin is a shared ledger, then Ethereum is a shared computer for the entire world to run its most important applications. [Source](https://tim.blog/2021/03/09/vitalik-buterin-naval-ravikant-transcript/)
- ## Perspective
- With that in mind, one can see why people are falling in love with Ethereum and Solidity, albeit with the limitations of the technology (e.g the Network can support up to [20 transactions/second](https://blockchair.com/ethereum/charts/transactions-per-second)). There many interesting projects at hand, with DeFi (Decentralized Finance) being the biggest "industry" by far, and why wouldn't be. It's one of the few use-cases that actually make sense from a business perspective given the current technological limitations of the platform. 
- ## Learning Solidity in Public
-  While learning Solidity, I decided to start another project, called [[Learning in Public intro post]], sharing my learnings about different subjects as I learn them. 
- If you are interested in learning Solidity, or you are already learning Solidity, I have compiled a page full of insights and resources about things that I found challenging in my own learning journey. 
- Why spend hours on the internet chasing down the same answers as I did? 
- Simply follow the guide and hopefully, the insights will cover every possible question that you may have. **The goal is to greatly accelerate your learning process**. There is so much available material, that I don't expect to produce any ground-breaking material. I will simply lay the material for you, as I did for myself.
- Sounds simple enough, [Enter the rabbit hole]([[Learn Solidity]]) 
